Most browsers have built‑in support for filtering
out cross‑site scripting attacks.
The most common of these are reflective cross‑site scripting attacks.
These occur when an attacker injects browser executable
code within a single HTTP response.
Now the best way to get your head around this is via an example.
Here is a form to submit support queries in our application,
which will then be viewed by the administration team.
Now,
if a malicious party enters some JavaScript and then
the admin views the support query,
when the server sends the HTML back to the browser,
the administrator's browser notices the JavaScript,
and rather than displaying it, the script is executed.
Perhaps the strings are still the admin's cookie
session or any number of nefarious _____.
Now, in this case,
this header did not protect the admin from a
reflective cross‑site scripting attack,
but because I was using another templating framework called Thymeleaf.
By default, Thymeleaf imports our output back to the browser,
which protects against script being executed.
Now for the demo,
I had to specifically use a tag that did not encode it to demonstrate
what a reflective cross‑site scripting attack is.
Again, another reason why using frameworks can save you.
Now,
as you saw this header is not foolproof and generally cross‑site scripting
protection is already enabled by default in the browser,
but including this header doesn't hurt,
and it makes sure that if the browser does support it,
it will enforce it.
And also,
it instructs the browser that in the event of
detecting a cross‑site scripting attack,
the response should be blocked,
as some browsers might try to be clever and change the content or do some
magic that still try and render the page or content and that in itself
could then lead to a cross‑site scripting attack,
so this tells the browser, just block it.
Now, this then leads to a similar header, the X‑Content‑Type nosniff.
Now historically, because of poor HTML coding practices,
such as leaving out the content type,
browsers try to be clever and guess the type.
This was known as content sniffing, and it was to improve the user experience.
However, malicious parties exploited this by using polyglot file,
which are files that are valid in multiple content types,
so as an image and also as a valid JavaScript.
Hence, when viewed in the browser,
it was a lottery if the browse decided that it was an image and
displayed it or decided it was script and executed it,
basically, a cross‑site scripting attack. Now this header just tells the browser disable content sniffing, period.